08.05 16:11
Grove - Annotations UX
Annotation content is unique in the sense that you can be viewing content from multiple different sources in the form of different forms of media.
The simplest way to organize this content is by designing media page templates. 
We will do this by simply treating annotations as a form of content routing to said templates.
What form can the information from said content take, and how will we manifest it? Simply put, we will use a simple sorting algorithm to dictate the content's weight relative to all content. We can give a score to text vs. images, and we can factor in the form the content is in. When we distill this down to the core primitives we have rich text and we have images. For rich text we have anywhere from .txt to .epub / PDF. For images we have standard image file types, then we have gifs and then we have video.
The design of the content layout should fall into a category that uses a real world model. Therefore we can organize the content layout to reflect the same thing. We can also use the amount of content to dictate the level of content we use. 
Simplest example; brochure > pamphlet > magazine. 
To qualify for this, the ratio of media to text has to meet the criteria (let's say for the sake of discussion, the ratio is at between 70-60% media, 30-40% text). Then the level used for the annotation has thresholds. We don't use magazines for small amounts of content, for instance. 
The last determining factor is type of content. Images are straightforward to display, sans video. However, text could be a bit complicated. For PDF and epub we may need to deploy specific strategies depending on the length of content.  They are already within of themselves a form of long form content akin to magazines. Either as decks, or by simply having pages. In this case before presenting the content, their may be a simple browse model that lets you decide what to navigate; the organized annotation, or the PDF/epub. 
Either way, PDFs / epubs are out of scope for the initial release due to this complexity. 
For primitive focused content in the form of text and images, thecontent layout used per page will be dictated by the content itself. This dictation is driven by content proximity. So for example; if we have a lot of content, qualifying us for a magazine layout, the content closest will be within the same "chapter" and the content closest to each other will be in the same page or nearest to each other.
From that point forward the content curated to be on the same page will have its ratio examined against the appropriate page template. So depending on the ratio it might use the image in a full page, or it might use half the page and use broadsheet columns for the text underneath it.
It's important to note that we never truncate, and we never overflow. If content exceeds the limits of the template section for that text, it is given the next size up. So all content moves onwards. Generating more pages. This is how books and all text media handles content.
Users will be able to browse said content, all content will have footer notes like in magazines denoting what layer the content is from. Similar to how they show the current page in magazines, and this is regardless of media form. 
In conclusion; the user experience goes as follows: 
At a certain distance away from the grid, annotations appear locally relative to information-dense areas on the grid that they can see as represented by aura fields with small, pulsating dots in various areas. If the user brings the cursor close enough to any of these dots, it animates an escalator line with a title for the content in that area. The title is dictated by the closest piece of content on the same layer as the annotation. If that content doesn't have a title itself; the first 280 characters are used. If the content isn't text, but an image. The image is displayed in a thumbnail format with the title of the image. If the content has an anchor, the anchor is displayed instead of the title or the previous aforementioned methods for titling annotations. 
If the user selects the annotation, it expands into the appropriate content type, that content type is then navigable within said modal, the user can pin the content modal to the information layer locally, or add it to slate. The model cannot be moved, but the camera obviously can. So the user can move the camera to view the content closer or to reposition where it is relative to where they are. 
The user is able to freely add content to any of the individual content inside of it. Say for instance a content of text, the user wants to add context, they can simply click into the content area that the content occupied inside the page layout, and begin adding content.
If a user highlights content to make new content, it will be done so as a memory. Understanding how to place said new content relative to the content it was highlighted from is too advanced at this moment. Better for the user to take ownership and dictate that relationship.
Lastly, all content is navigable. Meaning, if the user wishes to navigate to said content, it can be done by simply interacting with a small cta that will appear on hover, taking the user to said content on its given layer, closing said annotation in the process.

