08.05 15:20
Grove - annotations 
Annotating content in grove is essentially providing an overlay that uses a broadsheet inspired layout to present all content inside of a given field to the user. The content itself is more of a cross between a pamphlet and a notebook. It's not meant to be an in-depth reading space, but more of an overview with some additional context.
## Layers and Annotations 
When triggering an annotation, if it is triggered for content in a saturated aura field, all content across all layers that overlap with said field will be queried for the annotation.
Annotations will start with a simple staircase line with no anchors, overlapping with the field it is designated to, with the bottom of the escalator line near the center of the content.
The center of content in a given combined aura field is the highest concentration of aura overlap, followed by the smallest distance between content within that concentration.
To avoid generating noise, only one annotation can be generated per content cluster. However, in the case of multiple clusters existing, notrd by highe field concentrations being separated by relative distances (like neighboring solar systems within the same galaxy), additional annotations may be generated. 
If we think of field saturation in the same way we understand galaxies in a astrophysics sense, then we have different tiers of annotations; field annotations, which are annotations that down / cover the entire field, and local annotations, which are annotations that are local to a dense cluster. While field annotations are easy to define; simply one field annotation per field, local annotations require some logic to navigate. Essentially within a given field there must be a calculation to identify the content clusters first. Then, a local annotation is assigned to each content cluster.
When not directly engaged ("engage" = hovering over with the cursor, or in our app's case, the cursor is directly overlapping a cell occupied by either the field concentration related to the cluster, or a content within the cluster itself), annotwtions exist as simple blimps. Like red dot notifications in gacha. They do not require direct hovering to be engaged, just hovering related to what the annotation is subscribed to, in order to be engaged.
Only one annotation can be active at a time. However, you can use a pin cta to keep an annotation up. That pinned overlay / modal remains relative to the location of the annotation, and does not remain fixed to your screen. This is the observation layer that overlays modals, etc can exist on that is neither the grid nor the camera, nor the layer in which fixed screen overlays, such as the slate, exist on. 
For now, only one annotation can be pinned at a time. While off screen there will be a marker that will take you back to said pinned content to view when necessary.
Annotations can also be opened in slate, for direct viewing. This can be a way to browse and navigate content freely.

